---
layout: post
title: Becoming a Dev Intern at Sonian
categories:
- "Cloud"
- "The Sonian Way"
---

By Ryan Herlihy

![Ryan]({{ site.baseurl }}/public/images/2015/09/ec597f78add1ab1b5a35749f0d622102.jpeg)

**_Editor’s Note:_**

_Sonian is committed to finding and motivating the
best development talent. Our advanced cloud-based email archiving
solution uses a number of open source technologies, including Swift,
Chef, React, Ruby and ElasticSearch. In this post, Dev Intern Ryan
Herlihy talks about joining the team at Sonian and learning about
cloud-based technologies._

**How did you hear about the Sonian developer intern program?**

I learned about the Sonian developer internship when I was searching
online for internship opportunities. I was looking for opportunities
focusing in software or web development. The developer internship
offered by Sonian appeared to provide an interesting experience in
current programming and development processes.

**What other opportunities did you consider before choosing the Sonian internship?**

I had searched and applied for many internships before I found
Sonian’s internship. All these other opportunities had a similar
focus, such as front-end and back-end web development, as well as
being part of a software engineering or development team.

**What were your impressions of the company before you learned more about the business?**

At first, I wasn’t too sure exactly what Sonian did or what type of
products it created. I was interested because Sonian is a young
company that seems like it has the ability to grow a great deal. It
looked like a very forward thinking company that is focused on what’s
possible for cloud-based technologies now and in the future.

**What was the interview process like for you?**

I thought the interview process was very interesting and very
informative. I liked that I was able to talk to several people who
have very important roles at Sonian and hear how they viewed the
company and what they were looking for in the internship. Some
interviews can feel intimidating, but the process at Sonian was very
comfortable and felt more like a conversation than an ordinary
interview. I enjoyed sharing my experiences and thoughts with the
people at Sonian during my interview, as well as learning more about
the opportunity.

**What do you hope to accomplish during the internship?**

During the internship, I would like to get a better understanding of
the current development processes at software companies. I want to
learn the tools they use and how they work together to accomplish
tasks. I would also like to be able to write a lot of code, to really
understand how languages like Javascript work and function in
real-world applications. Anything that will better prepare me for a
future job in this type of industry will be of value to me, as well as
expand my knowledge of current and rising technologies, tools and
processes. It would also be great to contribute in any way to Sonian’s
products and projects.

**What are your initial impressions after your first week?**

I really enjoy the working environment at Sonian. Everyone is very
nice and friendly, and I’m excited to learn from everyone in the
development team. There is a lot of new information to learn and seems
a little bit overwhelming at the moment. Right now, I haven’t worked
on any Sonian projects, but I look forward to starting and hopefully
the things I’ve been reading about will start to make more
sense. Overall, my experience so far makes me excited about continuing
on and learning more about this field.

**What technologies most excite you?**

I am excited about using React.js and learning about interacting with
the cloud in general. I don’t know too much about cloud technologies,
but I’m interested in learning more about how it’s being used today.

**What technologies do you think will be most challenging for you to learn?**

I don’t think there is one single technology that will bring me the
most challenges; I think the most challenging part will be learning
how to use all the technologies together in a way that will be the
most effective. I would like to get a greater understanding of the
Javascript language and how it functions because other technologies
will become easier to understand.

## Technology jobs and internships at Sonian

See all the [current opportunities](http://sonian.com/about/careers/)
and apply online!
