---
layout: post
title: Notes from Elastic{ON}
categories: [Open source projects, Sonian Technology]
---

By Dan Dillinger, Ian Truslove

Last week, Elastic (née Elasticsearch) held their first ever user
conference Elastic{ON}15 in San Francisco, and we were lucky enough to
attend. Sonian uses Elasticsearch as one of our core architectural
technologies, indexing upwards of 17 million documents per day; we
were keen to hear and learn as much Elasticsearch goodness as we
could.

The overarching theme from ElasticON was the rebranding: it is not
just Elasticsearch anymore. The ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash,
Kibana) received lots of coverage, both the products’ new features
individually and also their integrated use. Using Kibana to rapidly
generate data visualizations of Elasticsearch queries and aggregation
results is definitely a powerful tool, and the change to D3.js for
chart rendering will make product integration simple.

Aggregations also received decent coverage at the conference. This,
plus mentions of other upcoming features such as reducers and
performance optimization work with doc values seems to indicate that
Elasticsearch’s analytics capabilities are squarely in the development
team’s focus.

Another analytics tool from Elastic is the Elasticsearch
Hadoop. Currently supporting Pig, Hive, Cascading, Spark and Storm,
and with various other improvements coming, this is already a powerful
tool to use to interoperate with data in HDFS, or to use Hadoop
processing technologies on data held in Elasticsearch.

One notable deprecation for Sonian is that of facets. Aggregations are
the replacement for facets, and the facets API is marked for removal
in a future release. Since aggregations can be composed, nested, and
are clearly under active development, migrating from facets to
aggregations will only expose benefits.

A particularly exciting point of interest for an archiving company
like Sonian has been the introduction and subsequent leaps of progress
around doc values, a promising new tool to keep the heap usage of a
cluster in check while still providing flexible and performant access
to field data. We’re very excited to see what we’ll be able to do with
both the clusters we run today, and the new demands of our upcoming
products, when we begin to add doc value definitions to our mappings.

If Elasticsearch, Lucene, or text analytics at scale is of interest to
you, Sonian has some new job openings. Please check them out!
